.TH YOUSSEF-TOOLS 7 "2026-03-01" "Youssef Bouhjira" "Custom Tools Reference"
.SH NAME
youssef-tools \- custom tools and scripts by Youssef Bouhjira
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page provides a comprehensive reference of all custom-built tools,
CLIs, scripts, and services across Youssef's development environment. These tools
span multiple domains including project management, GPU computing, media processing,
AI/ML workflows, and infrastructure automation.
.SH CLI TOOLS (RUST)
.TP
.B proj
Project manager with local and GitHub synchronization, fuzzy search, and code
quality checks. Provides seamless navigation between projects and repositories.
.br
.I Location:
~/Projects/claude-project-cli
.TP
.B yb-global-mcp
MCP (Model Context Protocol) server providing Claude Code with knowledge about
available tools, repositories, and infrastructure. Enables intelligent tool discovery.
.br
.I Location:
~/Projects/yb-global-mcp
.TP
.B app-hub
Docker container dashboard with GPU monitoring, featuring a SolidJS frontend and
Rust backend. Provides real-time visibility into containerized applications and
GPU resource utilization.
.br
.I Location:
~/Projects/app-hub
.TP
.B gpu-context-hook
SessionStart hook that automatically injects GPU server context into Claude Code
sessions, enabling GPU-aware task planning.
.br
.I Location:
~/Projects/yb-global-mcp/hooks/gpu-context
.TP
.B ip-changer
Router management utility for Huawei HG8145V5 devices. Installed globally in PATH
for quick IP configuration changes.
.br
.I Location:
~/.local/bin/ip-changer
.SH APPLICATIONS
.SS Desktop and Web Applications
.TP
.B claude-headless
WebSocket and REST API wrapper around Claude CLI for building web-based chat UIs.
Built with TypeScript and Effect for type-safe, composable API design.
.br
.I Location:
~/Projects/claude-headless
.br
.I Stack:
TypeScript, Effect
.TP
.B faceswap-api
GPU-accelerated video face swapping REST API using FaceFusion. Provides high-quality
face replacement in video streams with hardware acceleration.
.br
.I Location:
~/Projects/faceswap-api
.br
.I Stack:
TypeScript, FaceFusion
.TP
.B voiceswap-desktop
AI voice cloning desktop application supporting RVC and Seed-VC models. Features
a Tauri frontend with FastAPI backend for real-time voice transformation.
.br
.I Location:
~/Projects/voiceswap-desktop
.br
.I Stack:
Tauri, FastAPI
.TP
.B d3-wysiwyg
Visual WYSIWYG editor for D3.js visualizations with node-based data flow. Enables
non-programmers to create complex data visualizations.
.br
.I Location:
~/Projects/d3-wysiwyg
.br
.I Stack:
React, D3.js
.TP
.B solidkit
SolidJS component library with integrated Storybook for component development and
documentation.
.br
.I Location:
~/Projects/solidkit
.br
.I Stack:
SolidJS, Storybook
.TP
.B video-cutter
GTK-based video cutting utility for quick video trimming and splitting.
.br
.I Location:
~/Projects/video-cutter
.br
.I Stack:
Python, GTK
.TP
.B ybreport
Desktop reporting application built with Tauri, combining Rust performance with
web UI flexibility.
.br
.I Location:
~/Projects/ybreport
.br
.I Stack:
Tauri (Rust + Web)
.SH SHELL SCRIPTS
The following scripts are located in
.I ~/.claude/
and provide automation for Claude Code workflows:
.TP
.B analyze-session.sh
Analyze a specific Claude Code session, extracting metadata, tool usage, and
conversation flow.
.TP
.B backup-logs.sh
Backup Claude Code conversation logs to local storage with compression and rotation.
.TP
.B backup-to-gcs.sh
Backup logs to Google Cloud Storage bucket
.I gs://claude-code-logs-youssef-backup
with automatic versioning.
.TP
.B backup-to-github.sh
Backup logs to GitHub repositories for version control and sharing.
.TP
.B process-daily-logs.sh
Process and summarize daily Claude Code logs, generating insights and statistics.
.TP
.B project-banner.sh
Display styled project banner in terminal with project metadata and status.
.TP
.B suggest-project-emoji.sh
AI-powered project emoji suggester based on project name and description.
.SH SHELL INTEGRATION
.SS Zsh Plugin
Custom Oh My Zsh plugin located at
.I ~/.oh-my-zsh/custom/plugins/claude/
providing:
.PP
.B Aliases:
.RS
.TP
.B cc
Alias for
.I claude
.TP
.B ccc
Alias for
.I claude chat
.RE
.PP
.B Tab Completion:
Full tab completion for all Claude Code subcommands and options.
.SH GITHUB REPOSITORIES
Over 200 repositories at
.I github.com/ybouhjira
including notable projects:
.TP
.B termgfx
Terminal graphics CLI for rendering charts, images, and interactive prompts in
the terminal. PUBLIC repository.
.TP
.B kats
Knowledge And Tracking System built in Rust with adaptive learning algorithms.
.TP
.B vidgrab
Browser-based video downloader CLI supporting multiple platforms.
.TP
.B androidlens
Android debugging tool built with C++23 and Dear ImGui for real-time device inspection.
.TP
.B dlna-server
Rust DLNA media server with GTK4 GUI for streaming media to compatible devices.
.TP
.B francopals
French learning mini-games for kids with interactive exercises.
.TP
.B qml-test-framework
Jest/Playwright-style testing framework for Qt QML applications.
.SH INFRASTRUCTURE
.SS Cloud Services
.TS
tab(|);
l l l.
Service|Purpose|Access
_
Google Cloud|Secrets management, cloud functions|gcloud CLI
Project ID|exam-generator-1764422144|
Tailscale VPN|Mesh network (MacBook, Gaming PC, Phone)|tailscale CLI
ntfy|Phone push notifications|curl/notify script
Topic|exam-generator-youssef-2024|
.TE
.SS VPN Access
.TP
.B Chandler VPN
Server: uschd1.transperfect.com:4443
.br
Access: dev-glekgv.transperfect.com (dev environment)
.br
Type: Cisco AnyConnect
.TP
.B CTX VPN
Server: 207.223.244.4
.br
Access: *.tptkgv.com (qa-gle, dev-gle)
.br
Type: IPSec
.br
Username: youssef.bouhjira
.TP
.B Tailscale
Personal mesh VPN for secure device access
.br
Devices: MacBook (100.90.8.47), Gaming PC (100.76.24.74), Phone (100.68.78.110)
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/proj/config.toml
Configuration file for
.B proj
project manager
.TP
.I ~/.config/proj/cache.json
GitHub API cache for
.B proj
to reduce API rate limit usage
.TP
.I ~/.claude/
Directory containing Claude Code scripts, configuration, and session logs
.TP
.I ~/.secrets
Local API keys and credentials (not committed to version control)
.TP
.I ~/.oh-my-zsh/custom/plugins/claude/
Zsh plugin for Claude Code integration
.TP
.I ~/Projects/
Root directory for all development projects
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP
.B SUPERVISOR_THRESHOLD
Confidence threshold for Claude Code supervisor hook (default: 90)
.TP
.B SUPERVISOR_TICKET
Ticket ID for E2E test enforcement in supervisor
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B View GPU server status
.nf
app-hub
.fi
.TP
.B List all projects
.nf
proj list
.fi
.TP
.B Backup Claude Code logs to GCS
.nf
~/.claude/backup-to-gcs.sh
.fi
.TP
.B Connect to CTX VPN for QA access
.nf
scutil --nc start "CTX"
.fi
.TP
.B Send notification to phone
.nf
curl -H "Title: Build Complete" \\
     -d "Deployment successful" \\
     ntfy.sh/exam-generator-youssef-2024
.fi
.TP
.B Fetch TransPerfect credentials from GCP
.nf
gcloud secrets versions access latest \\
  --secret=YOUSSEF_TRANSPERFECT_EMAIL \\
  --project=exam-generator-1764422144
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR proj (1),
.BR gh (1),
.BR claude (1),
.BR git (1),
.BR gcloud (1),
.BR tailscale (1),
.BR docker (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Youssef Bouhjira <github.com/ybouhjira>
.SH NOTES
This reference page documents tools and infrastructure as of March 2026. New tools
may be added over time. Check individual project repositories for latest documentation.
.PP
Many tools are optimized for ADHD-friendly workflows with emphasis on automation,
visual feedback, and minimal context switching.
